Luke here with the arter boys YouTube
channel and I'm making a knife in the
middle of Alaska's Wilderness I'm going
to be sleeping in my own shelter
building a forge out in the woods making
my own charcoal kill and forging a knife
from scratch
[Music]
[Applause]
it's been a couple weeks since I've been
here at the
shelter we got quite a bit of ice and
snow since I was here last and sealed up
the shelter really well well I think I
better bust out my shovel and start
digging things out
all right that looks pretty good I think
it's time to go find some kindling
though I'll tell you one nice thing
about this cold weather it made the snow
so hard you don't need snowshoes
well I want to get a roaring fire in
here pretty quick cuz I want to figure
out how much of this snow is going to
melt and I don't want to be underneath
here when that happens so whatever's
going to melt I want it to melt before
it gets dark tonight so that I can have
a nice dry bed to sleep
on oh my fire wood is so wet it rained
really good before it got cold I got to
prop it all up and get it to dry out
before I can use it all right we're
going to let that fire thaw out the
shelter get everything warmed up and I'm
really excited to build a forge out here
and do some blacksmithing projects
tomorrow but I'm going to need a lot of
charcoal so I'm going to build a
charcoal Kil and I need a lot of
wood think I'm going to go ahead and
start cooking some lunch I'm getting
hungry I got some frozen salami I want
to thaw out with that right there I got
some cheese wrapped in tin foil
oh that smells amazing I got a big slab
of soft cheese covered in a fig
marmalade just warmed it up over the
fire got it already pre-cut into a
little cubes got a nice Italian
salami there we go warm cheese little
salami some fig
sauce we're going to use this to make
our charcoal kill
d
[Music]
we got the wood jam in there about as
tight as I
can there's a lot of snow and moisture
in these logs I'm going to try to get as
much of that moisture out before I put
the lid on you already start to see a
lot of steam coming out out of the
barrel you can hear the water sizzling
in the bottom of the barrel not going to
get any charcoal till all that water's
gone oh yeah that's really taking good a
lot of steam and a little bit of
smoke still feels pretty cool in the
middle though we're just going to let
that go for a nice long time I'm going
to be checking on this fire on and off
all night long
all right I think it's time to start
making this place
comfy put my animal hides in
there got a couple Caribou hides as a
mat a nice Buffalo hide as a
blanket
oh it's hard to see on the camera but
every now and then the smoke coming out
of the barrel is catching in on fire you
can hear the wood popping and stuff so I
think we're starting to get some
charcoal on the bottom but most of this
smoke coming out of here is actually
just
steam it feels
wet pieces like this are still
wet all right I'm going to go ahead and
cook a baked potato here
let's get this thing surrounded by
coals for dinner I thought I'd cook
myself a whole chicken I'm GNA go ahead
and spatch this bird which is
basically a way of preparing it so it
lays down flat makes it cook a lot
faster just cut either side of the spine
and take the whole spine out
some salt and
pepper let that roast
see how we got Flames coming out still a
lot of steam coming out but look at
that look at the Flames coming
out once I consistently see Flames
coming out of the barrel then I know
it's time to put the lid
on we just keep this fire going all
night and hopefully tomorrow we're going
to have a whole bunch of charcoal
all right we're going to go fill this up
a couple more times make sure I got
plenty of water for
tonight it's a long tradition that you
have to burn at least one thing when
winter camping and I think it was my
water bottle it's got like a goiter I
set it near the fire to keep it from
freezing and got it a little too close
yeah I better take care of that it's my
only water bottle on this trip now let's
see how the bird's
doing looking good
all right let's check on the
charcoal see the bottom of the lid is
covered in Wood
tar starting to come along
little jar of gravy here it's pretty
Frozen get that warmed up got some
frozen
oil got bacon chunks green onions yellow
onions and chives frying in a little
butter and
oil definitely overdid the baked potato
but that's okay
got butter salt pepper chives onions
bacon and a little bit of gravy on a
very overdone baked potato it's a little
charred on the outside but the inside's
still good all right let's take a look
at this
chicken oh that looks pretty
good oh you know it's done when you can
just pull the leg off and you don't have
to cut
it we're going to try some spicy H
barbecue sauce
too oh that is a good potato oh so hot
oh that gravy is just Tangy and
goodoo I like this spicy honey barbecue
sauce oh slow roasted chicken over a
fire is hard to
beat that was good
got a little dessert coming our
way this is a little Australian cookie
called a Tim tamam and if you bite the
ends
off then you can use it as a
straw then all the hot chocolate melts
the
inside but that is a Tim tamam slam
right
there it's definitely feeling colder on
this trip put thermometer out in the
tree over there I'm going to go check it
see what it
says yeah it looks like it's about 3
fight right now all right I'm going to
bring this inside the shelter we're
going to see how good of a job I did
building this
thing all right I'm going to go ahead
and just stick it right there on my bed
see we're almost 30 just a little below
freezing it's kind of fun look at all
the icicles it's
made all right I'm going to go grab some
wood real quick and uh I'm going to get
ready for
bed going to use my jacket and gloves as
a pillow oh I'm pretty tired I think
it's time to go to
bed see you guys in the
morning oh good morning oh I'm pretty
warm even though the fire's gone out but
my feet are a little bit cold
but I need to get
up my hide froze to the
logs there we
go oh that burned down pretty good can't
remember exactly but I think I built the
fire under that Barrel around 300 p.m.
and it's 8 : a.m. right now so 17 hours
it's been burning I think it's time we
crack it open and see what we got I
expect it's not completely done but
we'll
see W Barrel's much
lighter all
right look at that
that is great
charcoal there's some pieces that aren't
done all the way through this this will
work right it's so light you can just
feel the
difference you can see that some of it
down there is still
cooking well that seems to have worked
reasonably well we're going to let that
sit with the lid on while I go make some
breakfast hopefully it'll cool down a
little bit
more all right I'm going to be making a
tin foil breakfast it's hash brown
sausage bacon and
vegetables you can hear it sizzling
already let that sit and cook for about
an hour or so
needan
that looks pretty good going to add some
of this spicy honey barbecue
sauce oh that was good
look at that it's 10:00 and it's all
sunny
got my Forge and my Anvil set up you
work the Billows by pumping the handle
up and down and that turns this flywheel
which runs a fan and blows air into the
coals unfortunately the grease on the
forage is frozen up so it doesn't want
to work very well right now so I'm going
to go ahead and get the fire going and I
think that'll solve my
problems so there's a little tooth right
here in this gear and when you spin the
hob the centrifugal force puts the tooth
out and it grips the inside of this gear
and engages the flywheel there's a lot
of grease in that Hub and that grease is
cold and so sometimes the tooth isn't
coming out and engaging
properly I think warming it up is
helping it work a little better but it's
still got
problems let's see if that
helps yeah that's working so I got a
piece of leaf spring steel from a broken
ATV trailer we're going to go ahead and
heat that up we're going to try to turn
it into a
knife all right
there you go
there we go I'm almost done using up all
the bad charcoal this stuff still works
pretty good
starting to get into some really good
charcoal here stuff is burning
great I was thinking how I want to
replace this with a metal
handle all right it'll still work just
going to be a lot more work
a
[Music]
we'll let that cook for a couple hours
while I got the forge cleared out I'm
going to go ahead and empty it there's a
bunch of coals and Ash down there and
the fan won't turn
[Applause]
[Music]
I need to sit down this is going to be a
while you know there's a common myth
amongst metal workers that files should
only be used in One
Direction turns out that's not true
works a whole lot better if you do it in
both directions
all of my structure caught
fire now we go deal with
that wouldn't be a winter camp out if I
didn't catch my structure on fire at
least once let's see how these moose
ribs are
doing if you want to know if they're
done you squeeze the end and if the
meat's pulled off the end of the bone
then you know they're done and this one
is
done is from the moose I shot this fall
oh I like moose
ribs oh that was good so messy though my
hands are so dirty the only clean spots
are where I was touching my
food I got to keep working on this knife
[Applause]
like the look of
that there you go one hole
drawn oh it's time for a little dessert
oh got a little mini pie nice and
warm oh that was good all right back to
work three
holes now it's time to harden it
who when you get high carbon steel
glowing hot and then cool it down
suddenly it becomes harder so after you
quench the knife in the snow you then
you test it with a file to see if it's
the right
hardness I like it I think it'll work
just fine well I'm at a good stopping
point for tonight and I am exhausted
it's really late so I'm going to hurry
up and get to
bed oh my
back I'll see you in the morning we're
going to finish this
knife oh I'm tired my arms are sore
oh oh look how lazy I am it's 8:40 in
the morning and the sun's
up a the days are getting longer finally
all right I got a lot to do today we're
going to stoke up this fire and get
breakfast
going all right I got a couple cinnamon
rolls I wrapped up in tin
foil we're going to go and warm those
suckers up
got some very Frozen breakfast
[Music]
sausages poured the hot water in my
plastic cup I can feel it crack and do
all sorts of weird stuff hope you're
okay there cup you're the only one I got
today I'm hungry cold and thirsty and
this is just hitting the spot it's a
spiced orange herbal tea good
try to squeeze another round out of
those
teabag could go for some ketchup or some
brown sauce right
now hopefully I thaw these and not
burned them little bit of both o a
caramel pecan cinnamon
roll burned it a little bit right there
but it's still
good oh that was good
all right I think it's time to get to
work woo this is cold the Tang's a
little bit wonkier than I would like so
I'm trying to improve it with the
file all right that's about as good as
I'm going to get with these tools now we
need some wood for the
handle there's a
contender there we go
I put some water on my wetstone and it
froze think I better warm up my wet
stone first
well it's almost noon I I think I'm
going to start making some
lunch look at all this lovely
charcoal it's nice having a big thing of
charcoal to cook
over for lunch I've got a Cornish pasty
that I'm going to bake in the coals it's
a handheld version of a meat pie from
the southwest of
England now we got to set the rivet this
is the sketchiest part these are just
Quin steel rods and they stick out just
a little bit further than the wood and
when you smash them with a hammer
they'll Mushroom on the end and that'll
squeeze the wood to the handle and make
everything set but if you smash the wood
instead of the metal you'll split the
wood there we
go
oh now we sand
[Music]
it's looking pretty
good did reasonably well well I baked
pretty well except I missed a spot
Cornish pasties were a traditional meal
for the Cornish miners something they
could eat with Dirty Fingers I think
that's very applicable
today got beef carrot and parsnips it's
good oh that was really good
got a little bit of cooking oil I want
to rub into the handle to protect it but
it's
frozen so we're going to boil some water
[Music]
here this dead black Spruce is so dry
and porous it's just soaking up the oil
it's not a hand that should be clean
this is a handle that should have ash
and soot on
[Music]
it well it's not exactly razor sharp but
I got an edge on it
[Music]
oh my back I I'm going to take a little
break and make some dinner for dinner I
got some MSE stew that I vacuum sealed
and froze just going to throw it in a
pot of boiling water and it'll heat up
easy peasy now about this
first rivet in the sheath that's
good all right we're going to stretch
the leather out a little
bit there we go a knife and sheath
it's a sick little piece of equipment
there I like it oh looks like we're just
in time
too oh yeah moose stew is
done oh that was
good ah feels good to have some food in
me but uh this project worked out pretty
well but you know what I've been out
here for 3 days and it's time for me to
go home but I'm going to leave the forge
out here definitely think I'm going to
be
back there I okay keep my Forge out of
the snow and
ice all right we're going to leave the
charcoal here I'm sure I'll need that
when I come back Anvil yeah it'll be
fine
all right I think that's it for this
trip I'll see you next
video if you like that video make sure
to check out the outdoor Boys YouTube
channel where we have hundreds of videos
just like this and if you want to see
our newest Adventures make sure to click
subscribe so you'll get notifications